[Music]
the face of innocence ashley martinson's
face at least for a time according to
friends when she moved to Rhinelander
Wisconsin at the age of 16 she seemed
like you're fairly typical teenage girl
if not a little on the shy side I met
her on the bus kind of seemed like she
had nobody to talk to it so I thought
I'd be a friend and go say hi he lived
just a mile down the road from the home
she shared with her mom Jennifer and
stepdad Thomas Ayers so Thomas was not
Ashley's biological father
correct so he was father to Thomas was
the father of the other three children
in the home did Ashley feel responsible
or protective of those little girls well
I think that she considers them her
little sisters and they consider her
their big sister so they had been around
each other long enough to have formed
that relationship but like a lot of
girls her age Ashley started to go
through some big changes dark makeup
dark clothes even darker thoughts she
had all kinds of different drawings but
they were also very dark how dark very
dark like scary monsters
she drew things that would make me I
would not want my little kids to see
them and then there were her poems
disturbing words she wrote under the
name vamp chick
they say one of us is to blame you're
holding that knife covered in blood I'm
laughing off the pain wondering which
one of us is guilty if we're both
totally insane you're holding that knife
covered in blood
that's a wee bit graphic porn but okay
but the morbid blog post the dark
sketches were they all signs of a
twisted soul or just normal teenage
curiosity and where do you think that
was coming from I think that's what she
was into that was just her interest
either way as Ashley approached her 17th
birthday the darkness seemed to be
taking over her eyes would be usually
open staring at the back of the seat
hopelessly what do you think was really
going on that she has some issues at all
[Music]
Ashley it was constantly getting
grounded getting her phone taken away
did you know anything about her plan to
leave the house she was talking about it
and she had a couple of plans for going
to a friend's house and living there
that plan became even more solidified
when Ashley started seeing a young man
named Ryan Cisco the kidney looked like
it was maybe 17 18 pushin it that turns
out he was 22 yeah I didn't know that
but before long Ashley's parents did I
believe on March 7th
Ashley's stepfather Thomas and his her
mother Jennifer had found out so it was
a big family fight yes there was a big
family fight over Ashley dating this 22
year old boy yes
according to reports Ashley took off but
didn't get far he went and picked her up
and brought her back to the house at the
time
Ashley was sent to her room so then she
goes to her room
Thomas leaves the house and then comes
back in and asked where is she and the
mother says she's upstairs and he goes
upstairs and that's when this all begins
[Music]
9-1-1 where's your emergency it's not
until the next day March 8th when 900
series of strange calls from somewhere
in Rhinelander 911 - hello 911 so we
received numerous hang-up calls and we
were trying to call back and get a
location but because the cellphone
covered was bad in that area it was very
difficult then finally a connection
9-1-1 where's your emergency home hello
my house moments later police are racing
to the home of Ashley Martinson I
thought there might be a shooter and
they upstairs we also know that there
were three children that were also
inside the house downstairs you wouldn't
have known that anything had happened
but once you approached the staircase
and go upstairs there was a mess
shotgun on the bedroom floor a
blood-soaked knife tangled with hair
Thomas and Jennifer Ayres brutally
murdered in their own home there was
blood everywhere there was brain matter
scattered across the upstairs it's
obvious from the scene that there was a
lot of Rage a lot of anger what was
becoming even more obvious who was
responsible where was Ashley she was not
there Jennifer's daughter and Thomas's
stepdaughter 17 year old Ashley
Martinson was nowhere to be seen on the
run it appeared with the boy she'd been
seeing 22 year old Ryan Cisco she became
the number one suspect because she
couldn't be located anyway
what police do find are Ashley's three
younger sisters still huddled inside the
house according to the girls after one
of them saw Ashley stabbing their mother
Ashley put them all in their room with
food and juice and then tried to keep
them there it was a full day before the
oldest sister finally called 911 three
little children doing in the house with
two dead people at one point they got
out and walked around the house walked
up and up to their parents and then went
back into the room and slept in that
room until the next morning what do you
make of their behavior I think they were
afraid they were afraid that Ashley was
still in the house but as police soon
learned Ashley left shortly after the
killings hiding out with Ryan at her
friend Jonathan Rasmussen s house just a
mile or so down the road John does
remember seeing deep cuts on Ashley's
hand and leg but it wasn't until the
next day that both he and his dad
learned how she got them it's all over
Facebook that Ashley killed her parents
it was like somebody popped a balloon
and I didn't know what was going on
what he did know was where Ashley might
be going and before long
authorities did to Ashley and her friend
Ryan Cisco took Thomas's truck and they
left town and started driving down
towards Tennessee what was their plan
they were going to stay with an aunt in
Tennessee and more or less start a new
life they made it as far as Indiana with
guns drawn
[Music]
police take their prime suspect and
possible accomplice down without
incident but they don't necessarily find
the faces of evil they were expecting
you know what all this is in reference
to have an idea
[Music]
yeah I think at first when we got there
we thought that it was this teen girl
that had this older boyfriend and she
wanted to run off and so she killed her
parents but when you pull back all the
layers there's a lot underneath it that
none of us knew about until we dug
further into it
the most surprising thing actually was
that the Ryan Cisco had absolutely no
knowledge of the crime until they were
in the state of Indiana
so had Ryan been completely duped into
becoming an accomplice to a double
homicide and what had a sh lee's motives
been in the first place and we didn't
have any other idea who Ashleigh
Martinson was so all we had was walking
into her bedroom looking at her walls
looking at what was on the internet like
the dark blog she wrote under the
pen-name
vamp chick welcome to nightmare her home
page began if you are ready I will paint
the streets red just for you it seems
really chilling when you read this after
the murders yes and that is what we
looked at for the first few days trying
to figure out what was going on the
national media came here and all we had
to give them was vamp chick and all the
crazy writings that she had done and
this really dark story that was all
around her that is who we thought she
was but as investigators started digging
deeper into Ashley's home life black and
white conclusions began to gray
especially when it came to her stepdad
Thomas what kind of a man was Thomas
Ayers the only thing I can say to you is
that he was a convicted felon
incidents involving domestic violence
and other things and other things yes
things like criminal mischief kidnapping
even sexual assault a list of offenses
going back years so he wasn't supposed
to have any firearms in the house
correct did you find some they found
several firearms at the house even
inches away from the kids crayons and
Ashley's sisters had even more insight
when he thank you was it harder soft
heart there had been abuse going on in
the home even abuse to the mother abused
to animals at the hands of Thomas like
then throw them around they talk
specifically about a dog it was
irritating Thomas and he eventually
killed the dog my dad told me that he
shot him and then there was what he'd
allegedly done to the children
themselves he told to me one time
he growling that he told me an attorney
a reason to run to get help but to kill
and if it was some sort of revenge
killing then what about the other victim
almost unrecognizable through all the
gore Ashley's own mother there was an
overwhelming amount of stab wounds you
know all over her body hands arms legs
their stab wounds all over her
it was clear that the only way
detectives would be able to get the
answers they needed would be to ask
Ashley herself and what she had to say
would make everyone second-guess what
they thought they knew her drawings were
dark her blog nightmare even darker but
it was the actions 17 year old Ashley
Martinson stood accused of that said the
most killing her own mother and
stepfather father was lying in the
hallway up against a closet door and
just outside of a bedroom was Jennifer
Ayers was on the stairs with multiple
puncture wounds to her body but when
police started talking to Ashley herself
she said they had it all wrong what
happened
in a shock to investigators
Ashley immediately denies having
anything to do with the two shotgun
blasts that ended Thomas Ayers life she
would never so if she had no reason to
kill Thomas who did
they're gonna kill her what did she say
about that
so did Ashley's mom finally find that
way out the most dead-end way possible
she said that her mom understood that
because our staff had my misery
after that Ashley says she ran upstairs
to find her mom standing over her
stepfathers body shotgun in hand from
there according to Ashley it was a fight
for survival with the woman who gave her
life Ashley was to be believed she just
got caught up in a tragic series of
events that her mother initiated but
there were a few little holes in that
theory she forgot that there were still
three witnesses within the house
Ashley's three younger sisters the same
ones she tried to lock in their room
after the murders told a very different
story one that started with those first
two gunshots
stairs
your sisters were with your
and here immersing what was that
without going so far as to call her
sisters liars
Ashley continued to deny shooting Thomas
but still if she really did just kill
her mother in self-defense why were
there so many stab wounds 52 times you
didn't run to would have been enough you
could have got away why 52
fifty-two times isn't I'm afraid that
I'm going to die fifty-two times is I
know you're gonna die a forensic
pathologist would later revise that
number down to thirty five wounds
overkill either way but why as she
reported that she had been sexually
assaulted before by whom one of her
mother's boyfriends this was a boyfriend
from when Ashley was younger like about
nine according to records the boyfriend
assaulted Ashley in his car while a
neighbor watched it seemed that every
man that her mother chose turned around
and abused Ashley in the worst ways
correct Ashley or her mother and I think
that when all of those emotions came out
that's how we ended up with such a
horrendous attack on her mother officers
continued talking to Ashley for hours
but it's still not until days later that
Ashley finally decides to tell the whole
truth that it really was she who killed
both her parents I think that Ashley was
trying to get away from there but she
had gotten in this relationship with
Ryan and her parents had found out about
it and that it just started this whole
horrible event while no one was looking
Ashley retrieved one of the many loaded
guns lying around the house and made a
fateful decision though not necessarily
the one everyone was thinking
her statement is that she was going to
kill herself that day Thomas leaves the
house and then comes back in and he went
upstairs and started banging on the door
then according to Ashley it was in that
split second after what she claimed was
a lifetime of trauma that she finally
snapped either she opened the door he
open the door but the door was open when
he was shot two times two times in the
neck in the head on the side of the head
the horror continued then her mother
comes up the stairs and there's some
kind of incident between the two of them
at which point Ashley gets control of a
knife and stabs her mother between 30
and 40 times it was a complete tragedy
from almost any angle and in one of the
most dramatic moments of her interview
the full weight of it all seems to
finally come crashing down
[Music]
for nearly five full minutes
Ashley can twist a song in this case
Ashley's both the victim and the killer
yes but then investigators find
something that made them question
everything once again there is some
indication in a Facebook post where she
talks about Thomas and that she should
just take a gun and shoot him
but was it really so split-second after
all there is some facebook posts that
Ashley had posted the day before between
herself and ran Cisco where she talks
about Thomas and that she should just
take a gun and shoot him specifically
she wrote I want to kill him so
expletive bad just take one of his guns
and blow his expletive brains out
one day later that's exactly what she
did
does that make this premeditated in my
mind yes she had thought about it and
then carried through with the act but
the full context of the message may tell
a slightly different story sent on the
morning of what should have been a
special day Ashley's 17th birthday it
began I woke up this morning to my
stepdad beating my mom I can't take it
anymore
he's gonna kill her if she doesn't leave
soon and I don't want to be around when
that happens so is that evidence of a
teenager just blowing off steam or
evidence of a teenager who ends up
actually carrying it out and that's what
you have to look at I mean her comments
were basically about the abuse that her
mother was receiving from Thomas and
that she was concerned Thomas was going
to kill Jennifer and so her remark to
that was I should just take a gun and
kill him then this would be over and
certainly there was more evidence to
suggest the killings weren't planned the
fact that Ashley had just turned 17 how
pivotal was that to how she would be
treated by the criminal justice system
in the state of Wisconsin when you're 17
years old you're considered an adult had
she been 16 years old she could have
been waved into the juvenile system and
how close was she to this deadline one
day Ashley Martinson is initially
charged with two counts of first degree
intentional homicide and three counts of
false imprisonment for trying to lock up
her sisters
and what about those sisters now orphans
because of what Ashley did were they mad
at Ashley for killing their parents yes
how did they express that they asked
questions like is she in jail is she
gonna stay in jail things like that and
then there were the letters the girls
wrote to the judge their letters are
very interesting I remember being so
scared when I heard my mom scream I'm
glad she didn't hurt my sisters I
thought she was going to I think she
should stay in jail until she rots you
met these girls is this from the heart I
believe that they are scared very scared
of Ashley because they can't put
together the Ashley that they knew and
they actually that was there the last
day of their parents lives but in her
own letter to the judge Ashley wrote
even though I have made my sister's into
orphans I know deep down that they are
now in a more safe and loving
environment
I do hope that one day they will be able
to forgive me at her arraignment and
facing life in prison
Ashley pleaded not guilty by reason of
mental disease or defect but not long
after that her attorneys struck a deal
reducing the charges to second-degree in
exchange for a guilty plea I think that
and the District Attorney obviously
agrees that it wasn't premeditated or he
would not have agreed to drop the
charges to second-degree though the
prosecution asked for a maximum sentence
of 40 years she received 23 to some it
was too light for such a horrific crime
still others thought Ashley deserved way
less is it wrong that some people have
compassion for
Ashley I mean I myself feel sad for her
to have grown up in such a bad situation
but my job is to hold people accountable
for crimes if every child that lived in
a home that had abuse in it
killed their parents there would be a
lot of dead parents today Ashley
Martinson is serving her time at two
Cheeta Correctional Facility and Fond du
Lac Wisconsin since being transferred
there roughly six months ago she's
received no visitors but that was about
to change so when I first got assigned
this story I wanted to know more I
wanted to know the girl behind headlines
because I thought could this girl be
this dark or is there just a victim
behind all of this so I wrote to Ashley
in prison and she wrote me back and she
said that she wanted to tell her story
that she was finally ready to tell her
story unfortunately our cameras weren't
allowed in the prison but what Ashley
told me inside those walls was too
important to not be heard so after
working with administrators and Ashley's
social workers hello this is a prepaid
collect call from actually an inmate at
the Tate Cheeta Correctional Institution
we arranged to have Ashley call us thank
you for let me have this opportunity to
tell my story
[Music]
though our own cameras weren't allowed
inside ashley sat down with me just days
ago for these exclusive new photos from
behind bars there were a lot of
surprises from our two-day meeting
including the fact that since being
imprisoned Ashley has gone on to receive
her high school diploma one of the first
in her family to do so and there were
even more surprises when Ashley agreed
to call us and go on the record
crazy because I'm in person but I feel
like I'm free I can wake up every day
and know that I'm safe safe she says
from a lifetime of trauma and abuse that
began when she was just eight and her
mom got a new boyfriend what did he do
to you everything
are you okay Ashley yeah really really
hard
Ashley had trouble finding the words but
according to court documents the man
would throw things at her burn her with
cigarettes and much much worse and he
raped you and Ashley says her mom also
allegedly being abused by that same man
not only failed to protect her she may
have enabled it Ashley says the abuse
went on for roughly two years and even
though her mom eventually got out of
that relationship things didn't get any
better
Thomas Ayers tell me what he was like
well Ashley fully admits Thomas never
actually laid hands on her she says what
he did do was much worse he would keep
you in line you said by beating your
mother and beating your little sisters
is that correct yes punishment could
hurt me so why didn't she just leave
well Ashley says she tried in with one
of my friends she says he found out
about Ryan Cisco and after that she was
essentially grounded for life he was
gonna take it all away I was going to be
100% imprisoned in that house
she says in that moment she saw only one
way out grabbing a shotgun and
retreating into her room sitting on my
bed panic terror Ashley felt overwhelmed
I was scared of him I am one of his
precious belongings and I am sorry what
did you do I pulled the trigger
Ashley didn't immediately shoot her
stepfather again as has been widely
reported instead she says she just
wanted to get away
decorative knife there's other stuff the
next thing I knew
her own mother had stabbed her says
Ashley so you're wrestling with your
mother and then you get hold of the
knife and what happens
[Music]
memories of all the bad things that
happened to me but she put me through
and I remember stabbing her once since
life and then I blacked out the next
thing I knew everywhere that's when she
says she looked up and saw Thomas and
seeing him scared me more I thought he
was gonna get up and he was gonna see
what I did so she grabbed the gun once
again I remember the chain break around
me I was free first time in my life I
was free
and there she sat she tells me in a
complete daze before remembering her
sisters and securing them in their room
a move she says it was to protect them
what's your hope for your relationship
with your little sisters
they thought that one day that they can
come to me and I can tell them what
really happened the truth I do want a
relationship with them I hope I had many
more questions for Ashley but as our
time was running out there was one
moment I wanted to ask her about
specifically it was shortly after her
arrest
just after partially confessing to
detectives when the investigator asks
you if you would like a hug you say yes
like everything is going to be okay okay
a lots been said about you and at the
end of the day you have killed two
people including your own mother
what is it that you want people to
understand about you and what happened
I'm not a monster
I never met any of this to happen
it doesn't make it right what happened
[Music]
I'm not wrong sir they betrayed me to be